Installing Player (Read Thoroughly)


By Vhin Gabuat
Feb 02, 2024
Step 1
Install a fresh Raspbian OS on your SD card, make sure to use the Legacy version called Buster. Connect with Admin for more info.


Step 2 - Install XScreensaver

Install xscreensaver to disable raspberry pi from sleeping or showing a screensaver. Make sure you’re connected to the internet.



sudo apt install xscreensaver -y
Once installed, you should now see Screensaver menu on Start > Preferences


Open the Screensaver app, if you see a pop up that says something about XScreenSaver daemon not running and suggesting to launch it, click OK.


Select Disable Screen Saver via the Mode select field.


Exit the app. Changes should take effect on the next reboot.


Step 3 - Installing Anydesk

We’re using a specific version of Anydesk which is 6.1.1. For this to install properly we need to install something first.

 Open up terminal and run the following command



sudo apt install libminizip1
wget https://download.anydesk.com/rpi/anydesk_6.1.1-1_armhf.deb
sudo dpkg -i anydesk_6.1.1-1_armhf.deb
 

Step 4 - Run Installer Script
To download the script, open terminal and run:



curl -O https://ncompasstv-prod-player-apps.s3.amazonaws.com/nctv-installer/04142023/nctv-installer.zip
Note: You might need to confirm with your admin if the url above is the latest one.

A zip file should be download in the home/pi folder named nctv-installer.zip.  You can confirm via Anydesk by using its file manager tool.

On the terminal, unzip the downloaded zip file via



unzip nctv-installer.zip

Then run the installer script via



sh nctv-installer/installer.sh

The installer script will install the following required programs along with the player-server and player-ui app. After a reboot open the terminal and verify if the following programs are installed by running the highlighted commands below, you can use this as a checklist for tracking:


NGINX -  nginx -v

NodeJS - node -v

NPM - npm -v

N - Node Version Manager - sudo n 12

PM2 - pm2 status

Chromium Browser - chromium-browser --version

GNome Terminal - gnome-terminal --version

SCROT - scrot --version

Unclutter - See if the mouse pointer hides after 10 seconds of inactivity 

CEC Utils - echo 'scan' | cec-client -s -d 1

Player Server Latest Version

Open Filemanager Go to n-compasstv folder

player-server folder exists

ecosystem-config.js exists

Go to player-server folder

 node_modules folder exists

src folder exists

nct-vistar-1.0.1.tgz exists

package.json exists

Press CTRL + H  →  .env file should show up

Player UI Latest Version

On the terminal, enter cd /var/www/html/ui

Then enter ls , this should show a list of files within the ui folder

Step 5 - PM2 Starter Script
To get the player run on startup we need to run the next script pm2-starter.sh included in the nctv-installer folder, go ahead and open up terminal via CTRL + ALT + T and enter the command below



sh nctv-installer/pm2-starter.sh
This will start the player and will ask for a license key, but before we do that, let’s do another reboot to make sure that the pm2-starter script has been configured properly.



sudo reboot;

Step 6 - Watchdog Script
If the player ran on start up then we were able to setup startup rules successfully! Now I know you’re itching to get that license key in there but hold on to that for now, we have one last script to run, this is also included in the nctv-installer folder. This script watchdog-starter.sh will setup watchdog service which is responsible for emergency rebooting the Pi when it hangs or get stuck all of a sudden.

Go ahead and open up terminal CTRL + ALT + T and run the command below, note that this needs to be ran with sudo



sudo sh nctv-installer/watchdog-starter.sh
Once all is done, terminal will tell you to run the crash simulator command → Done, now run the crash simulator command, this is to see if watchdog has been configured properly. On the terminal run the command below.



sudo bash -c ':(){ :|:& };:'
Player will hang and reboot after a few seconds. Then it should normally start the player. Congratulations! You have a fresh installed player, you can now proceed with entering your license key.

Checklist:


New Wallpaper

Player should run on startup

Screensaver Disabled

Mouse Pointer hides after a few seconds

Keyboard shortcuts should work. 

CTRL + SHIFT + P

CTRL + SHIFT + K

CTRL + SHIFT + R

User should be able to enter a license key

Socket Controls should be working via Single License Page

Screenshot

Reboot Player

Reboot Pi

Content Update

Restart Anydesk

Reset Anydesk ID

Speedtest

CEC Controls
Cloning a complete Pi/Player (Optional)
Before cloning a complete running image, do the following first:


Stop the player-chromium 



pm2 stop player-chromium
 

Reset the player’s database



curl http://localhost:3215/api/content/reset
 

Stop Anydesk Service



sudo systemctl stop anydesk
 

Reset the Anydesk ID



sudo rm /etc/anydesk/service.conf 
 

You can now turn off the player via sudo shutdown command and create a clone out of it.

